[WP] Autogenerate config doc (#53737)
DataDog/datadog-agent: docs/cloud-workload-security/workload_protection_agent_config.md

---
title: Workload Protection Agent configuration
description: Public Workload Protection Agent configuration settings
disable_edit: true
further_reading:
- link: "/security/workload_protection/getting_started/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Get started with Datadog Workload Protection"
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED. PLEASE EDIT THE FILE IN THE SCRIPTS/TEMPLATES FOLDER -->

> The Workload Protection Agent has several configuration knobs that can be used to tweak the agent and its behavior. You'll find below the list of available parameters for both `system-probe` and the `security-agent`, two components that are required for Workload Protection to function properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Workload Protection Agent has several configuration settings to modify the agent and its behavior. The following parameters are available for both `system-probe` and the `security-agent`, two components that are required for Workload Protection to function properly.
```

## `security-agent` configuration parameters
<div class="alert alert-warning">From <code>7.77</code>, the security-agent runtime for CWS is effectively deprecated: it is not used anymore and this section can be ignored.</div>

> <div class="alert alert-info">Parameters can be provided in 2 different manners: through environment variables (given to the Datadog Agent container for example) or by editing the <code>/etc/datadog-agent/security-agent.yaml</code> configuration file.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">Parameters can be provided in two different manners: through environment variables (given to the Datadog Agent container for example) or by editing the <code>/etc/datadog-agent/security-agent.yaml</code> configuration file.</div>
```

| Environment variable | `security-agent.yaml` attribute | Type | Default | Description |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_ENABLED`  | `runtime_security_config.enabled`  | bool | false| Enables Workload Protection for agent versions < `7.77`. |

## `system-probe` configuration parameters

The following settings can be configured under `runtime_security_config` in the system-probe configuration file.

> <div class="alert alert-info">Parameters can be provided in 2 different manners: through environment variables (given to the Datadog Agent container for example) or by editing the <code>/etc/datadog-agent/system-probe.yaml</code> configuration file.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">Parameters can be provided in two different manners: through environment variables (given to the Datadog Agent container for example) or by editing the <code>/etc/datadog-agent/system-probe.yaml</code> configuration file.</div>
```

<div class="alert alert-info">Parameters can be provided in two different manners: through environment variables (given to the Datadog Agent container for example) or by editing the <code>/etc/datadog-agent/security-agent.yaml</code> configuration file.</div>

| Environment variable | `security-agent.yaml` attribute | Type | Default | Description |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_ENABLED`  | `runtime_security_config.enabled`  | bool | false| Enables Workload Protection for agent versions < `7.77`. |

## `system-probe` configuration parameters

The following settings can be configured under `runtime_security_config` in the system-probe configuration file.

<div class="alert alert-info">Parameters can be provided in two different manners: through environment variables (given to the Datadog Agent container for example) or by editing the <code>/etc/datadog-agent/system-probe.yaml</code> configuration file.</div>

| Environment variable | `system-probe.yaml` attribute | Type | Default | Description |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---- | ------- | ----------- |

> | `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_ENABLED` | `runtime_security_config.enabled` | bool | false | Defines if the runtime security module should be enabled |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_ENABLED` | `runtime_security_config.enabled` | bool | false | Defines whether the runtime security module should be enabled |
```

| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_ENFORCEMENT_EXCLUDE_BINARIES` | `runtime_security_config.enforcement.exclude_binaries` | []string | [] | EnforcementBinaryExcluded defines the list of binaries that are excluded from the enforcement |
| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_ENFORCEMENT_RULE_SOURCE_ALLOWED` | `runtime_security_config.enforcement.rule_source_allowed` | []string | ["file", "remote-config"] | EnforcementRuleSourceAllowed defines the list of rule sources that are allowed |
| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_HASH_RESOLVER_CACHE_SIZE` | `runtime_security_config.hash_resolver.cache_size` | int | 500 | HashResolverCacheSize defines the number of hashes to keep in cache |

> | `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_HASH_RESOLVER_ENABLED` | `runtime_security_config.hash_resolver.enabled` | bool | true | HashResolverEnabled defines if the hash resolver should be enabled |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_HASH_RESOLVER_ENABLED` | `runtime_security_config.hash_resolver.enabled` | bool | true | HashResolverEnabled defines whether the hash resolver should be enabled |
```

| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_HASH_RESOLVER_HASH_ALGORITHMS` | `runtime_security_config.hash_resolver.hash_algorithms` | []model.HashAlgorithm | ["sha1", "sha256", "ssdeep"] | HashResolverHashAlgorithms defines the hashes that hash resolver needs to compute |
| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_HASH_RESOLVER_MAX_FILE_SIZE` | `runtime_security_config.hash_resolver.max_file_size` | int64 | 5242880 | HashResolverMaxFileSize defines the maximum size of the files that the hash resolver is allowed to hash |
| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_HASH_RESOLVER_MAX_HASH_RATE` | `runtime_security_config.hash_resolver.max_hash_rate` | int | 500 | HashResolverMaxHashRate defines the rate at which the hash resolver may compute hashes |
| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_HASH_RESOLVER_REPLACE` | `runtime_security_config.hash_resolver.replace` | map[string]string | {} | HashResolverReplace is used to apply specific hash to specific file path |
| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_REMOTE_CONFIGURATION_DUMP_POLICIES` | `runtime_security_config.remote_configuration.dump_policies` | bool | false | RemoteConfigurationDumpPolicies defines whether to dump remote config policy |

> | `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_USER_SESSIONS_SSH_ENABLED` | `runtime_security_config.user_sessions.ssh.enabled` | bool | true | SSHUserSessionsEnabled defines if SSH user session features should be enabled |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_USER_SESSIONS_SSH_ENABLED` | `runtime_security_config.user_sessions.ssh.enabled` | bool | true | SSHUserSessionsEnabled defines whether SSH user session features should be enabled |
```

### `system-probe` advanced settings

<div class="alert alert-warning">The following settings are intended for advanced use cases only. Modifying them without fully understanding their impact may disrupt Datadog Workload Protection or affect the behavior of the Datadog Agent and the host system.</div>

| Environment variable | `system-probe.yaml` attribute | Type | Default | Description |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---- | ------- | ----------- |

> | `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_SYSCALLS_CAPTURE_ALL_ERRORS_ENABLED` | `runtime_security_config.syscalls.capture_all_errors.enabled` | bool | false | CaptureAllSyscallErrorsEnabled defines if the agent should capture all syscall errors |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `DD_RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_SYSCALLS_CAPTURE_ALL_ERRORS_ENABLED` | `runtime_security_config.syscalls.capture_all_errors.enabled` | bool | false | CaptureAllSyscallErrorsEnabled defines whether the agent should capture all syscall errors |
```
